.TH "HIPGISAXS" "1" "07/16/2013" "" "Simulation Tools"
.nh
.ad l
.SH "NAME"
hipgisaxs \- High Performance GISAXS (Grazing Incidence Small Angle X-ray Scattering) simulation tool
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.HP 6
\fBhipgisaxs\fR [OPTION] HiG-INPUT-FILE
.SH "VERSION"
1.0
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
This is a high-performance tool which takes advantage of parallelism of the platform it is executed on, including multi-core CPUs, Nvidia GPUs, Intel MICs, and their clusters. Something more will come here.
.SH "OPTIONS"
None yet. If any come up in future versions, they will be listed here.
.SH "ENVIRONMENT"
List of environment variables affecting hipgisaxs execution.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
Some examples will be listed here.
.SH "HiG INPUT FORMAT"
Description of the input file format.
.SH "HiG INPUT EXAMPLES"
Some examples of the input files.
.SH "COMPATIBILITY"
This code is not compatible with standards lower than C++0x/C++11. It is also not compatible with CUDA versions lower than 4.0. This code has only been tested with the OpenMPI and MPICH2 implementations of the MPI-2 standard.
.SH "STANDARDS"
This tool conforms to C++11 standard.
.SH "DOCUMENTATION"
A complete documentation can be found in the doc directory included with this package. It can also be found at \fIhttp://portal.nersc.gov/project/m1285/hipgisaxs.html\fR.
.SH "AUTHOR"
This \fIHipGISAXS\fR package based on C++, Nvidia CUDA, OpenMP, MPI and parallel-HDF5 was written by Abhinav Sarje. HiG input format was developed by Abhinav Sarje, Slim Chourou and Elaine Chan.
.SH "DEVELOPERS"
HipGISAXS development team includes Slim Chourou, Abhinav Sarje, Elaine Chan, Alexander Hexemer and Xiaoye Li at the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, Berkeley, USA.
.SH "HISTORY"
HipGISAXS was preceeded by a sequential MATLAB implementation which was written as a proof of concept.
.SH "KNOWN BUGS"
Bugs? What bugs?
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Found a bug?!!!??? Report any bugs to \fIbug-submit@saxs-waxs-gpu.dhcp.lbl.gov\fR or \fIasarje@lbl.gov\fR with detailed information about the case(s) when the bug(s) manifested.
.SH "LICENSING AND COPYRIGHT"
The HipGISAXS software is only available to be downloaded and used by employees
of academic research institutions, not-for-profit research laboratories, or
governmental research facilities. Please read the accompanying Non-Commercial End
User License Agreement before downloading the software. By downloading the
software, you are agreeing to be bound by the terms of this Non-Commercial End
User License Agreement. This EULA is also provided as a PDF file along with
the documentation.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
Anything to see also?
